SIGCOMM 2019 Call for Papers
============================

The ACM SIGCOMM 2019 conference seeks papers making significant research
contributions to the field of data communication networks and networked
systems. The conference takes a broad view of networking research, which
includes new ideas relating (but not limited) to :

-   Different network types, layers, and devices:
    -   Wide-area, data-center, home, enterprise
    -   Sensors and Internet of Things
    -   Network access in remote or under-served areas
    -   Wireless and mobility
    -   Routers, middleboxes, network functions, end-host network stacks
    -   Link and transport layers
    -   Applications, including distributed systems and social networks
    -   Virtual networks and SDNs
    -   Future network architectures: clean slate and evolution
-   Aspects and properties of networks:
    -   Correctness and performance
    -   Security and privacy
    -   Fault tolerance
    -   Energy consumption
    -   Usability
    -   Emergent properties
    -   Management
    -   Resource allocation, provisioning and planning
    -   Economics
    -   Topology
-   Different evaluation methods:
    -   Theory
    -   Experiments
    -   Measurement
    -   Deployment and experience

We expect submissions to be daring and emphasize novelty and creativity.
We recognize that more novel concepts can be harder to fully develop and
evaluate, and the review process will take this into account. We
encourage authors to discuss the limitations of their ideas in addition
to the benefits.

Unlike some previous years, SIGCOMM 2019 will not have a separate
experience track. However, we do encourage the submission of experience
papers, particularly from industry, that provide detailed technical
insight into real-world deployments of novel networking technologies and
systems.

In addition to the main conference, SIGCOMM 2019 will have a series of
co-located workshops, tutorials, poster and demo sessions, a travel
grant program, and conference best paper and SIGCOMM awards.

For more information about SIGCOMM 2019, please see
<https://conferences.sigcomm.org/sigcomm/2019/>

Submissions
-----------

Submissions should report novel results that are supported by
experimentation, deployment, simulation, or analysis. Submissions must
be in 2-column, 10-point format and can be up to 12 pages long, with as
many additional pages as necessary for references.

*New in 2019:* Submissions and final papers may include appendices
(following references, also not counting against the 12 pages).
Appendices will not be considered in reviews, so we caution authors to
ensure that the core paper is complete and self-contained. (For example,
if the appendix provides details of a proof or experiment, the body
should summarize the key result.) For accepted papers, the shepherd will
review appendices and must approve their need. Appendices may also
include non-traditional material, such as videos, datasets, code, etc.

Detailed submission instructions, including sample templates, can be
found at <https://conferences.sigcomm.org/sigcomm/2019/submission.html>.

Ethical Concerns
----------------

*New in 2019:* *All* papers must include, in the main body of the paper,
a statement about ethical issues. This could be simply the sentence
"This work does not raise any ethical issues." If the work involves
human subjects or any potentially sensitive data (e.g., user traffic or
social network information, evaluation of censorship, etc), the paper
should clearly discuss these issues, perhaps in a separate subsection.

Papers must follow basic precepts of ethical research and subscribe to
community norms. These include: respect for privacy, secure storage of
sensitive data, voluntary and informed consent if users are placed at
risk, avoiding deceptive practices when not essential, beneficence
(maximizing the benefits to an individual or to society while minimizing
potential harms to an individual), and risk mitigation. Authors may want
to consult the [Menlo
Report](http://www.caida.org/publications/papers/2012/menlo_report_actual_formatted/)
for further information on ethical principles, and they may find the
[Allman/Paxson paper in IMC
2007](http://conferences.sigcomm.org/imc/2007/papers/imc80.pdf) helpful
for a perspective on ethical data sharing.

Many organizations have an ethics review process (sometimes called an
Institutional Research Board, IRB). In some cases, research work may
clearly have no human subjects, and formal institutional review may not
be required. (However, a sentence in the paper stating this evaluation
is still required.) In many cases, IRB involvement is appropriate. IRB
approval of research is an important factor (and should be mentioned),
but the TPC will still evaluate ethical soundness of the work, just as
they evaluate technical soundness.

If there are questions about the ethics process, please contact the
program committee co-chairs. The PC takes a broad view of what
constitutes an ethical concern, and the TPC chairs may reach out to
authors during the review process if questions arise.

Research Reproducibility
------------------------

ACM is promoting research reproducibility by encouraging papers to
document the artifacts needed for others to reproduce their work. ACM
has details at
<https://www.acm.org/publications/policies/artifact-review-badging>.
They will award accepted papers a "reproducibility badge" if the paper
provides pointers to public code and other information as described at
the above link. Authors who wish to participate in this process should
document such information in an appendix to the paper. Information about
reproducibility is not required at paper submission, but is required at
camera ready. As an appendix, it will need to be provided to the
shepherd with adequate time for review. While we encourage authors to
participate, formal participation is not a factor in SIGCOMM reviewing.

Important dates
---------------

-   Thursday, January 24, 2019 23:59 UTC: abstract registration

-   Thursday, January 31, 2019 23:59 UTC: paper submissions

-   Friday May 10, 2019: reviews returned to authors

-   Thursday June 20, 2019: camera-ready papers due

-   the week of August 19, 2019: conference